--- page 20 ---
by The Open Group, April 2022 and updated May 2025 to include Technical
April 2022 and updated May 2025 to include Technical Corrigendum 1; refer to:
--- page 21 ---
--- page 22 ---
ArchiMate ecosystem also supports an exchange format in XML, which allows model and diagram
exchange between tools [C19C].
architectures, specific viewpoints for selected stakeholders, and language customization mechanisms.
Enterprise Architectures, and uses realization relationships to relate concrete elements to more
--- page 23 ---
1.3. Conformance Chapter 1. Introduction
1.3. Conformance
The ArchiMate language may be implemented in software used for Enterprise Architecture modeling.
For the purposes of this document, the conformance requirements for implementations of the
A conforming implementation:
1. Shall support the language structure, relationships, domains, cross-domain dependencies, and
2. Shall support the standard iconography as specified in Chapter 4, Chapter 5, Chapter 6, Chapter 7,
3. Shall support the viewpoint mechanism as specified in Chapter 13
4. Shall support the language customization mechanisms as specified in Chapter 14 in an
5. Shall support the relationships between elements as specified in Appendix B
6. May support the example viewpoints described in Appendix C and Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 5,
Readers are advised to check The Open Group website for additional conformance and certification
Deprecated Items identified as deprecated may be removed in the next version of this
defined by an implementor of a software tool. The value or behavior may vary among
implementations that conform to this standard. A user should not rely on the
existence of the value or behavior. The implementor shall document such a
May Describes a feature or behavior that is optional. To avoid ambiguity, the
opposite of “may” is expressed as “need not”, instead of “may not”.
--- page 24 ---
Obsolescent Certain features are obsolescent, which means that they may be considered for
Shall Describes a feature or behavior that is a requirement. To avoid ambiguity, do
not use “must” as an alternative to “shall”.
Shall not Describes a feature or behavior that is an absolute prohibition.
Will Same meaning as “shall”; “shall” is the preferred term.
