pages=207
--- page 152 ---
The derivation rules for potential relationships, or Potential Derivation Rules (PDRs), are used to
enrich the metamodel with relationships that otherwise would not be allowed and can be used to
Example B-12 shows a potential derivation in which some relationships are valuable, and some
Potential derivation rule PDR 5 allows the red and gray relationships. In this case, the architect
Example B-12: Examples of Potential Derivation
B.3.1. Potential Derivation for Specialization Relationships
inherited by the specialized element. This leads to a number of potential derivations.
The first two rules apply in the case where the target of a specialization relationship is the source or
target of any other relationship. In this case, the source of the specialization could have the same
PDR 1: Derivation with Specialization and Other Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(b,c ) : T exist, with S being Specialization and T being a
structural, dependency, or dynamic relationship, then a relationship r(a,c) : T might be derived.
Appendix B: Relationships (Normative) B.3. Derivation Rules for Potential Relationships
--- page 153 ---
Example B-13: Potential Derivation from a Specialization and Another Relationship in Line
PDR 2: Derivation with Specialization and Other Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(c,b ) : T exist, with S being Specialization and T being a
structural, dependency, or dynamic relationship, then a relationship r(c,a): T might be derived.
Example B-14: Potential Derivation from a Specialization and Another Relationship in the Opposite Direction
The next two rules apply in the case where the source of a specialization relationship is joining the
source or target of any other relationship. In this case, the target of the specialization could have the
same dependency.
PDR 3: Potential Derivation Between Specialization and Any Other Relationship
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(a,c ) : T exist, with S being Specialization and T being a
structural, dependency, or dynamic relationship, then a relation r(b,c) : T might be derivable.
B.3. Derivation Rules for Potential Relationships Appendix B: Relationships (Normative)
--- page 154 ---
Example B-15: Potential Derivation from Another Relationship and a Specialization in the Opposite Direction
PDR 4: Potential Derivation Between Specialization and Any Other Relationship
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(c,a ) : T exist, with S being Specialization and T being a
structural, dependency, or dynamic relationship, then a relationship r(c,b) : T might be derivable.
Example B-16: Potential Derivation from Another Relationship and a Specialization in Line
The potential relationships derived with the rules from this section may vary a lot in likelihood,
potential derivations usually leads to a lower probability.
an “IT Project Team”, as a specialization of “Project Team”, assigned to an “IT Project”, as a
specialization of “Project”. A “Project Team” aggregates a “Project Manager”, a “Project” accesses
Appendix B: Relationships (Normative) B.3. Derivation Rules for Potential Relationships
--- page 155 ---
Example B-17: Specializations Used in Potential Derivations
In this example, “IT Project Team” aggregates “Project Manager” is a derived relationship that is
• “IT Project” accesses (reads) “Project Planning” (PDR 1) is almost certainly a derived relationship,
B.3.2. Potential Derivation for Structural and Dependency Relationships
The next two rules apply in the case where a structural and dependency relation are joining at the
source of the structural relation. In this case, the target of the structural relation could have the same
dependency.
PDR 5: Potential Derivation Between Structural and Dependency Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(c,a) : T exist, with S being a structural relationship and T being
a dependency relationship, then a relationship r(c,b) : T might be derivable.
B.3. Derivation Rules for Potential Relationships Appendix B: Relationships (Normative)
--- page 156 ---
Example B-18: Potential Derivation from a Dependency and a Structural Relationship in Line
PDR 6: Potential Derivation Between Structural and Dependency Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(a,c) : T exist, with S being a structural relationship and T being
a dependency relationship, then a relationship r(b,c) : T might be derivable.
Example B-19: Potential Derivation from a Dependency and a Structural Relationship in the Opposite Direction
B.3.3. Potential Derivation for Dependency Relationships
The next rule applies in the case where two dependency relationships are joining at an intermediate
The dependency relationships are ordered by “strength”:
• Association (weakest)
PDR 7: Potential Derivation Between Dependency Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(b,c ) : T exist, with S and T being a Dependency Relationship,
then a relationship r(a,c) : U might be derivable, with U being the weakest of S and T.
Example B-20: Potential Derivation from Two Dependency Relationships
Appendix B: Relationships (Normative) B.3. Derivation Rules for Potential Relationships
--- page 157 ---
B.3.4. Potential Derivation for Dynamic Relationships
The next rules apply in the case where a structural and dynamic relation are joining at an
intermediate element. In this case, the target of the structural relation could have the same
dependency.
PDR 8: Potential Derivation Between Structural and Dynamic Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(b,c) : T exist, with S being Flow and T being a structural
Example B-21: Potential Derivation from a Dynamic and a Structural Relationship in Line
PDR 9: Potential Derivation Between Structural and Dynamic Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(a,c) : T exist, with S being a structural relationship and T being
a dynamic relationship, then a relationship r(b,c) : T might be derivable.
Example B-22: Potential Derivation from a Dynamic and a Structural Relationship in the Opposite Direction
The next rule applies in the case where two flow relationships join at an intermediate element. In this
case, the flow relations could be replaced by one relation.
PDR 10: Potential Derivation Between Flow Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(b,c ) : S exist, with S being Flow, then a relationship r(a,c) : S
Example B-23: Potential Derivation from Two Flow Relationships
B.3. Derivation Rules for Potential Relationships Appendix B: Relationships (Normative)
--- page 158 ---
PDR 11: Potential Derivation Between Triggering and Structural Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(c,b) : T exist, with S being a Triggering relationship and T being
a structural relationship, then a relation r(a,c) : S might be derivable.
Example B-24: Potential Derivation from a Triggering and Structural Relationship
B.3.5. Potential Derivation Rule for Grouping
PDR 12: Potential Derivation with Elements Aggregated in a Grouping Element
Example B-25: Potential Derivation with Grouping Element
EXIT_CODE=0
