pages=207
--- page 148 ---
Informally, this means that if two structural relationships are “in line” (the target of one relation joins
at the source of the other relation) they can be replaced by the weakest of the two. Transitively
applying this property allows us to replace a “chain” of structural relationships that are in line (with
intermediate model elements) by the weakest structural relationship in the chain.
“Payment Service” (from the chain assignment – aggregation – realization).
Example B-3: Derivation from a Chain of Structural Relationships
B.2.3. Valid Derivations for Dependency Relationships
Part of the language definition is an abstraction rule that states that a structural relationship and a
dependency relationship that join at an intermediate element under certain conditions can be
combined and replaced by the dependency relationship. This rule is split into two parts for both the
source and target side of the dependency.
DR 3: Derivation Between Structural and Dependency Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(b,c) : T exist, with S being a structural relationship and T being
a dependency relationship, then a relationship r(a,c) : T can be derived.
Example B-4: Derivation from a Dependency and a Structural Relationship in Line
--- page 149 ---
DR 4: Derivation Between Opposing Structural and Dependency Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(c,b) : T exist, with S being a structural relationship and T being
a dependency relationship, then a relationship r(c,a) : T can be derived.
Example B-5: Derivation from a Dependency and a Structural Relationship in the Opposite Direction
These rules may be combined with the derivation rule for structural relations (DR2), allowing to
replace a “chain” of structural relationships and a dependency relationship (with intermediate model
elements) by the dependency relationship in the chain, given that the chain does satisfy the restrictions
for structural and dependency relationships. Informally, this means that the beginning and/or
endpoint of a dependency relationship can be transferred “backwards” in a chain of elements
connected by structural relationships.
B.2.4. Valid Derivations for Dynamic Relationships
Part of the language definition is an abstraction rule that states that a structural relationship and a
dynamic relationship that join at an intermediate element under certain conditions can be combined
and replaced by the dynamic relationship. This rule is split into a generic rule and rules specific for
flow and triggering.
For the two dynamic relationships, the following rules apply.
DR 5: Derivation Between Structural and Dynamic Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(b,c) : T exist, with S being a structural relationship and T being
a dynamic relationship, then a relationship r(a,c) : T can be derived.
Example B-6: Derivation from a Dynamic and a Structural Relationship in Line
DR 6: Derivation Between Structural and Flow Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(c,b) : T exist, with S being a structural relationship and T being
--- page 151 ---
Moreover, triggering relationships are transitive, as expressed in the next rule.
DR 8: Derivation Between Triggering Relationships
If two relationships p(a,b) : S and q(b,c) : S exist, with S being Triggering, then a relationship r(a,c) :
Example B-10: Derivation from Triggering Relationships
This rule may be combined with the rules for deriving dynamic relations and structural relationships,
thus allowing discovery of triggering relations. Example B-11 shows how the “Sales Department” is
Example B-11: Derivation from Triggering and Structural Relationships
EXIT_CODE=0
